micropython/examples/galactic_unicorn/README.md, before:

# Galactic Unicorn MicroPython Examples <!-- omit in toc -->
 
- [About Galactic Unicorn](#about-galactic-unicorn)
- [Galactic Unicorn and PicoGraphics](#galactic-unicorn-and-picographics)
- [Examples](#examples)
  - [Clock](#clock)
  - [Eighties Super Computer](#eighties-super-computer)
  - [Feature Test](#feature-test)
  - [Feature Test With Audio](#feature-test-with-audio)
  - [Fire Effect](#fire-effect)
  - [Lava Lamp](#lava-lamp)
  - [Nostalgia Prompt](#nostalgia-prompt)
  - [Rainbow](#rainbow)
  - [Scrolling Text](#scrolling-text)
- [Wireless Examples](#wireless-examples)
  - [Cheerlights History](#cheerlights-history)
  - [Galactic Paint](#galactic-paint)
- [Other Examples](#other-examples)
  - [Launch (Demo Reel)](#launch-demo-reel)

## About Galactic Unicorn

Galactic Unicorn offers 53x11 bright RGB LEDs driven by Pico W's PIO in addition to a 1W amplifier + speaker, a collection of system and user buttons, and two Qw/ST connectors for adding external sensors and devices. Woha!

- :link: [Galactic Unicorn store page](https://shop.pimoroni.com/products/galactic-unicorn)

Galactic Unicorn ships with MicroPython firmware pre-loaded, but you can download the most recent version at the link below (you'll want the  `galactic-unicorn` image).

- [MicroPython releases](https://github.com/pimoroni/pimoroni-pico/releases)
- [Installing MicroPython](../../../setting-up-micropython.md)

## Galactic Unicorn and PicoGraphics

The easiest way to start displaying cool stuff on Galactic Unicorn is using our Galactic Unicorn module (which contains a bunch of helpful functions for interacting with the buttons, adjusting brightness and suchlike) and our PicoGraphics library, which is chock full of useful functions for drawing on the LED matrix.

- [Galactic Unicorn function reference](../../modules/galactic_unicorn/README.md)
- [PicoGraphics function reference](../../modules/picographics/README.md)

## Examples

### Clock

[clock.py](clock.py)

Clock example with (optional) NTP synchronization. You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -, and resync the time by pressing A.

### Eighties Super Computer

[eighties_super_computer.py](eighties_super_computer.py)

Random LEDs blink on and off mimicing the look of a movie super computer doing its work in the eighties. You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -.

### Feature Test

[feature_test.py](feature_test.py)

Displays some text, gradients and colours and demonstrates button use. You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -.

### Feature Test With Audio

[feature_test_with_audio.py](feature_test_with_audio.py)

Displays some text, gradients and colours and demonstrates button use. Also demonstrates some of the audio / synth features.
- Button A plays a synth tune
- Button B plays a solo channel of the synth tune
- Button C plays a sinewave (it's frequency can be adjusted with VOL + and -)
- Button D plays a second sinewave (it's frequency can be adjusted with LUX + and -)
- Sleep button stops the sounds

### Fire Effect

[fire_effect.py](fire_effect.py)

A pretty, procedural fire effect. Switch between landscape fire and vertical fire using the A and B buttons! You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -.

### Lava Lamp

[lava_lamp.py](lava_lamp.py)

A 70s-tastic, procedural rainbow lava lamp. You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -.

### Nostalgia Prompt

[nostalgia_prompt.py](nostalgia_prompt.py)

A collection of copies of classic terminal styles including C64, MS-DOS, Spectrum, and more. Images and text are drawn pixel by pixel from a pattern of Os and Xs. You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -.

### Rainbow

[rainbow.py](rainbow.py)

Some good old fashioned rainbows! You can adjust the cycling speed with A and B, stripe width with C and D, hue with VOL + and -, and the brightness with LUX + and -. The sleep button stops the animation (can be started again with A or B).

### Scrolling Text

[scrolling_text.py](scrolling_text.py)

Display scrolling wisdom, quotes or greetz. You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -.

## Wireless Examples

These examples need `WIFI_CONFIG.py` (from the `common` directory) to be saved to your Pico W. Open up `WIFI_CONFIG.py` in Thonny to add your wifi details (and save it when you're done).

- [micropython/examples/common](../../examples/common)

### Cheerlights History

[cheerlights_history.py](cheerlights_history.py)

Updates one pixel every five minutes to display the most recent #Cheerlights colour. Discover the most popular colours over time, or use it as an avant garde (but colourful) 53 hour clock! Find out more about the Cheerlights API at https://cheerlights.com/

Requires `WIFI_CONFIG.py` and `network_manager.py` from the `common` directory.

You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -.

### Galactic Paint

[galactic_paint](galactic_paint)

Draw on your Galactic Unicorn from another device in real time, over wifi!

Requires `WIFI_CONFIG.py` from the `common` directory. It also needs the `micropython-phew` and `microdot` libraries (you can install these using Thonny's 'Tools > Manage Packages').

## Other Examples

### Launch (Demo Reel)

[launch](launch)

If you want to get the demo reel that Galactic Unicorn ships with back, copy the contents of this `launch` folder to your Pico W.

Commit message:

Initial commit
Added example: clock_mod.py and helper file: clock_mod_digits.py. Changed README.md. Added info about the added example.

micropython/examples/galactic_unicorn/README.md, after:

# Galactic Unicorn MicroPython Examples <!-- omit in toc -->
 
- [About Galactic Unicorn](#about-galactic-unicorn)
- [Galactic Unicorn and PicoGraphics](#galactic-unicorn-and-picographics)
- [Examples](#examples)
  - [Clock](#clock)
  - [Clock_mod](#clock_mod)
  - [Eighties Super Computer](#eighties-super-computer)
  - [Feature Test](#feature-test)
  - [Feature Test With Audio](#feature-test-with-audio)
  - [Fire Effect](#fire-effect)
  - [Lava Lamp](#lava-lamp)
  - [Nostalgia Prompt](#nostalgia-prompt)
  - [Rainbow](#rainbow)
  - [Scrolling Text](#scrolling-text)
- [Wireless Examples](#wireless-examples)
  - [Cheerlights History](#cheerlights-history)
  - [Galactic Paint](#galactic-paint)
- [Other Examples](#other-examples)
  - [Launch (Demo Reel)](#launch-demo-reel)

## About Galactic Unicorn

Galactic Unicorn offers 53x11 bright RGB LEDs driven by Pico W's PIO in addition to a 1W amplifier + speaker, a collection of system and user buttons, and two Qw/ST connectors for adding external sensors and devices. Woha!

- :link: [Galactic Unicorn store page](https://shop.pimoroni.com/products/galactic-unicorn)

Galactic Unicorn ships with MicroPython firmware pre-loaded, but you can download the most recent version at the link below (you'll want the  `galactic-unicorn` image).

- [MicroPython releases](https://github.com/pimoroni/pimoroni-pico/releases)
- [Installing MicroPython](../../../setting-up-micropython.md)

## Galactic Unicorn and PicoGraphics

The easiest way to start displaying cool stuff on Galactic Unicorn is using our Galactic Unicorn module (which contains a bunch of helpful functions for interacting with the buttons, adjusting brightness and suchlike) and our PicoGraphics library, which is chock full of useful functions for drawing on the LED matrix.

- [Galactic Unicorn function reference](../../modules/galactic_unicorn/README.md)
- [PicoGraphics function reference](../../modules/picographics/README.md)

## Examples

### Clock

[clock.py](clock.py)

Clock example with (optional) NTP synchronization. You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -, and resync the time by pressing A.

### Clock_mod

[clock_mod.py](clock_mod.py)

Modified clock example by @PaulskPt, using timed NTP synchronization. You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -. Resync of the time is now done at intervals determined by the value of the variable 'interval_secs' in main() (default 600 seconds). Button A re-arranged. Buttons B, C and D added. Button A: increase hours; button B: decrease hours; button C: increase minutes; button D: decrease minutes. When you change hours and/or minutes, using buttons A thru D, the NTP syncing will be halted. This is done to prevent that a next NTP sync will undo your time alteration.
Added Global variables: 
- 'classic': If True: the color scheme of the the original Pimoroni clock script version for the Galactic Universe device is used.
   If False you have an option: see 'use_fixed_color' below.
- 'use_fixed_color: (default: False). If True. One color (foreground: red, background: black) is used. If False: color change at intervals.
   The color changes after an NTP sync moment. All foreground colors go with a black background color, except when foregrond color is black, the background will be white.
- 'my_debug': (default False) if set to True more information will be printed to the REPL.
- 'do_sync': this boolean variable is used to inhibit NTP sync after a hour/minute change by the user.
- 'country. It takes the value from the key 'COUNTRY' in the file 'secrets.py'. It is used to replace decimal '.' by ',' if country=='PT'.
  You can put there your country code, e.g.: 'USA'.
This example uses different character definitions. The characters are defined in the file 'clock_mod_digits.py'. At the end of this file is defined a 'img_dict', which contains info about the defined characters, all but one, digits, as well as the 'width' each of them occupies. The use of a different character set in combination with other color schemes makes the view of this clock example more 'quiet'. The original version is very nice, colorful and adjusted to ambient light, however that example gives a 'nervous' experience because the surrounding pixels of the background colours are constantly moving. This 'effect' I didn't like. It was one of the reasons for me to write the 'clock_mod' example script. I also didn't like the way the 'colon' character was defined'.
Added functions:
- my_dev(): collects the os.uname() into global 'dev_dict' dictionary. Data as: 'machine', (micropython) release and version;
- epoch(): returns a quasi unix epoch value, used in main() for time-controlled actions.
- adjust_hour(): self evident;
- adjust_minute(): same;
- is_connected: prints to REPL info about the WiFi connectivity;
- hdg(): prints a header to the REPL. Prints also clock, time_to_sync and percent_to_midday values.
- main(): contains the main loop
Modified functions:
- outline_text();
- sync_time();
- redraw_display_if_reqd():
Compared to the original clock.py example, this example prints more info to the REPL. Info like 'WiFi connected/disconnected'. Other info to REPL as: 'NTP sync in... secs', Clock time and '% to midday' are printed in a table format. Added a main() function with a try...except KeyboarInterrupt block, so the user can interrupt the running script by typing 'Ctrl+C'.

### Eighties Super Computer

[eighties_super_computer.py](eighties_super_computer.py)

Random LEDs blink on and off mimicing the look of a movie super computer doing its work in the eighties. You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -.

### Feature Test

[feature_test.py](feature_test.py)

Displays some text, gradients and colours and demonstrates button use. You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -.

### Feature Test With Audio

[feature_test_with_audio.py](feature_test_with_audio.py)

Displays some text, gradients and colours and demonstrates button use. Also demonstrates some of the audio / synth features.
- Button A plays a synth tune
- Button B plays a solo channel of the synth tune
- Button C plays a sinewave (it's frequency can be adjusted with VOL + and -)
- Button D plays a second sinewave (it's frequency can be adjusted with LUX + and -)
- Sleep button stops the sounds

### Fire Effect

[fire_effect.py](fire_effect.py)

A pretty, procedural fire effect. Switch between landscape fire and vertical fire using the A and B buttons! You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -.

### Lava Lamp

[lava_lamp.py](lava_lamp.py)

A 70s-tastic, procedural rainbow lava lamp. You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -.

### Nostalgia Prompt

[nostalgia_prompt.py](nostalgia_prompt.py)

A collection of copies of classic terminal styles including C64, MS-DOS, Spectrum, and more. Images and text are drawn pixel by pixel from a pattern of Os and Xs. You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -.

### Rainbow

[rainbow.py](rainbow.py)

Some good old fashioned rainbows! You can adjust the cycling speed with A and B, stripe width with C and D, hue with VOL + and -, and the brightness with LUX + and -. The sleep button stops the animation (can be started again with A or B).

### Scrolling Text

[scrolling_text.py](scrolling_text.py)

Display scrolling wisdom, quotes or greetz. You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -.

## Wireless Examples

These examples need `WIFI_CONFIG.py` (from the `common` directory) to be saved to your Pico W. Open up `WIFI_CONFIG.py` in Thonny to add your wifi details (and save it when you're done).

- [micropython/examples/common](../../examples/common)

### Cheerlights History

[cheerlights_history.py](cheerlights_history.py)

Updates one pixel every five minutes to display the most recent #Cheerlights colour. Discover the most popular colours over time, or use it as an avant garde (but colourful) 53 hour clock! Find out more about the Cheerlights API at https://cheerlights.com/

Requires `WIFI_CONFIG.py` and `network_manager.py` from the `common` directory.

You can adjust the brightness with LUX + and -.

### Galactic Paint

[galactic_paint](galactic_paint)

Draw on your Galactic Unicorn from another device in real time, over wifi!

Requires `WIFI_CONFIG.py` from the `common` directory. It also needs the `micropython-phew` and `microdot` libraries (you can install these using Thonny's 'Tools > Manage Packages').

## Other Examples

### Launch (Demo Reel)

[launch](launch)

If you want to get the demo reel that Galactic Unicorn ships with back, copy the contents of this `launch` folder to your Pico W.
